---
layout: post
title:  "Intro to Docker"
date:   2021-09-24 
---
<html>
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<title>Intro to Docker</title>
<style></style>
</head>
<body>
<h1>What is Docker?</h1>
<p>Docker is an open platform for building, delivering, and operating applications. Docker allows you to isolate your apps from your infrastructure, allowing you to quickly release software. Docker allows you to manage your infrastructure the same way you control your applications. You may drastically minimize the time between writing code and executing it in production by leveraging Docker's approaches for shipping, testing, and deploying code quickly.</p>
<ul>
    <li>Containers are used to develop an application and its supporting components</li>
    <li>Containers are used for distributing and testing applications</li>
    <li>Once ready, your application can be deployed into a production environment, as a container or orchestrated service.</li>
</ul>
<h1>What can Docker be Used For?</h1>
<p>The main takeaway from using Docker is that it streamlines the development lifecycle by allowing developers to work in standardized environments using local containers which provide your applications and services. Containers are beneficial for allowing continuous integration and continuous delivery for a work environment. Docker makes sharing code easier because developers could write locally and share their work using containers. Docker can also be used to create test environments for various applications before pushing into production. It also allows developers to create various environments; coding can be done withing a dev environment before being deployed into a test environment until it is ultimately pushed to production. All in all, Docker is very portable and flexible to fit the needs of developers.</p>
<p>This past week I used Docker to create and run a Prometheus server locally. I was able to install all the necessary tools and files I needed within the container I created, test, and run my server. Docker made it very easy to create my work environment.</p>
<h1>Docker Building Blocks</h1>
<p></p>
</body>
</html>